# Two Side PLL Recognition Practice Program by JackDeath5
There exists a desire to get faster at speedcubing. As a fellow speedcuber, I too want to improve at solving the cube. However, when looking for ways to improve you times, improving last layer recognition is often overlooked. Two side PLL recognition is a way to improve times a bit by knocking some time off PLLs by reducing the time it takes to recognize which case you have. Ideally, by recognizing the pattern of colors on two sides of the cube, you lose the time it takes you to look around the cube or to look at other sides of the top by using extra U moves to recognize the case.

Why doesn't everyone, especially newer speedcubers, do this? Well... learning two side PLL is kind of daunting... especially at first... kind of like full OLL in my opinion. Well, there's 22 PLL cases (including skips as cases, because it's *technically* a case, and I'd lose faith in humanity if someone couldn't recognize it) and 4 different ways each case can be looked at, meaning you would have to differentiate between 88 different color patterns. I don't know about you, but that seems like a rather large number just looking at it straight up. In addition, there's some patterns that are so similar that the color of 1 or 2 pieces could indicate completly different cases.

How would you go about learning the different setups though? Well, this is one area where there is no shortage of material online. You can easily find websites and/or Youtube videos to teach you how to distinguish between the different PLL cases. With some effort and diligence, you can learn the different patterns.

Practicing it though, is a completely different story. Sure, there's some **free** things that exist to help with practicing two side PLL recognition, but nothing I found was...satisfactory...in my opinion (no disrespect to those **free** things though).So, I figured that since know how to code Java, and having learned how to use a bit of JavaFX in high school, that I would make my own program and share it to the cubing community in a way that everyone can use it. I also deciced to make it open source, so that anyone could work on the code if they wanted to. My goal with this project of mine is to provide this free for anyone to use, so that good practice is accessible and not locked behind a paywall.

### Sidenote
To those who actually know how to code and have a lot of experience with it, I just want you to know that I coded the bulk of this before starting college, and so I didn't javadoc everything like I should have. Coming back to this to add a few more things after a year in college, I'm now regretting it. I'm sorry, but I learned to code by throwing in a bunch of comments to describe things going on in the code instead of Javadocing everything. I'll try to add the Javadoc as time goes on, I just decided to post this to get it out to people because my schedule is about to get a bit more busy. So, I apologize to anybody attempting to do this early on after the initial posting about the mountain of comments and code they'll need to go through to understand what's going on.
